
Recipe By     : 
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time : 0:00
Categories    : 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
       1           cup  nonfat skim milk
       3   tablespoons  plain yogurt
       1           cup  all-purpose flour

Recipe by: Bread Machine Magic Sourdough Starter: 1.) Heat 1 cup skim (NONFAT) milk to 90-100 degrees 2.) Stir in 3 tbsp. of plain FRESH high quality Yogurt 3.) Pour into a 1 quart glass or ceramic crock, jar or bowl. Cover with a nonmetallic lid and set in a warm place (70-100 degrees F) for 24 hours. (O warm day, you can place the starter outside in the sun or on a kitchen counter. On cooler days, place it in a gas oven with a pilot light or on to of the water heater or on a heating pad set on low) 4.) After 24 hours the milk will thicken and form curds. At this point, gradually stir in 1 cup all purpose flour until blended. Cover with lid and set in a warm place again until it ferments and bubbles and a clear liquid forms on top (about 2 - 5 days) Stir daily. 5.) Starter is now ready to use. Stir, cover loosely, and refrigerate. IF AT ANY TIME IN THE PROCESS THE STARTER TURNS PINK, SMELLS RANCID (NOT JU SOUR) OR DEVELOPS A MOLD, THROW IT OUT AND START OVER.

 Replenishing the Starter: Every time you use some of he starter, you must replace it with a like amount of milk and flour. For instance if you use 1 of starter, return 1 cup of milk AND 1 cup of flour to the jar. Follow these directions for feeding the starter.

 Feeding the starter to keep it alive: A starter should be used as often as possible, at least every 2-3 weeks. If you are not using it that often, pla to feed it once a month to keep it going. 1. Bring to room temperature. 2. Add equal amounts of warm milk (90-100) and flour (1/2-1cup each) 3. Cover with lid and allow to stand in a warm place (70-100 degrees) for twelve to 24 hours until bubbly and a clear liquid has formed on top. 4. Stir, cover loosely (set lid on jar but do not tightly seal; gasses must allow to escape), and refrigerate  Rejuvenating a Neglected Starter: If you forget to feed your starter month don't throw it away thinking its gone bad. Chances are you can still revive it. 1.) pour off the liquid and discard all but 1 to 2 tablespoons of the starter. Temporarily place reserved starter in a bowl. 2.) Wash out the starter container with hot water. 3.) Put the starter back into the container. 4.) Follow the directions for feeding the starter using 1 cup (warm (90- 100'F) skim (nonfat milk ) and 1 cup flour 5. You may have to repeat this procedure once or twice to bring it back up bubbly, sour smelling again.




                    
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
