
Recipe By     : Julia Child
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time : 0:00
Categories    : 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        ***NONE***

 These top-quality doughs use plenty of butter - after all, half the pleasure in eating a quiche is enjoying the crisply crunchy buttery pastry dough that surrounds it.  For both formulas, make the dough in your usual way.  To measure the flour, dip a dry-measure cup into the flour,  filling the cup to overflowing; sweep off the excess level with the lip.  (Measured this way, 1 cup averages 5 ounces or 145 grams.)

WITH A QUICHE RING

INGREDIENTS: 3 1/2 Cups all-purpose flour 2 Tsp.. salt 2 1/2 Sticks chilled butter (preferably unsalted) 4 Tbsp. chilled lard or shortening 2/3 to 1 /Cup iced water

 Wrap and chill the dough for at least 2 hours.  Butter the inside of your quiche ring and the baking sheet (or inside of a false-bottom cake pan).  Roll the chilled dough up onto your pin and unroll over the ring.

 Press dough in place.  To make the sides of the free-standing shell strong enough to hold the filling, push dough down with your fingers all around the ring.  Work fast so the dough doesn't soften.

 Roll you pin over the top of the ring to remove excess dough thickening the sides.

 Now push the dough up the sides with your thumbs to form a rim standing 1/4" or so above the top of the ring.  Patch any thin areas with raw dough.  Prick the bottom of the shell with the tines of a fork.

 Using the dull edge of a table knife, press a decorative pattern on the rim of the shell.  Cover with plastic wrap and chill 30 minutes so shell will bake evenly.  To freeze the unbaked shell, slip into a plastic bag.

 To prevent a soggy bottom, it's always best to pre-bake the shell.  Kept the sides and bottom in place by bracing them with buttered foil and dried beans.

 Preheat oven to 450 degrees.  Bake in lower middle level until bottom of pastry is set but still slightly soft. (If edges have sunk down, gently push them up with a spatula, or patch them with raw dough.)  Remove liner (or top pan) and bake a few minutes more, until pastry is just beginning to color and to separate slightly from edges of mold or pan.  Cool for 10 minutes before unmolding.

 For 2 shells baked in 8" rings or false bottom pans.

 You don't need an imported ring to bake a shell.  Use a cake pan turned upside down and this special dough.

 Dough on an upside-down pan.  Prebake it with a buttered pan on top to prevent crust from puffing up.

UPSIDE-DOWN SHELLS

INGREDIENTS: 3 1/2 Cups all-purpose flour 2 1/4 Sticks chilled butter 5 Tbsp. chilled lard or shortening 2 Tsp. salt Liquid: 1 Egg plus ice water to make 3/4 cup; droplets more water as needed

 For 2 shells baked on 8" upside-down cake pans.

MC Formatted using MC Buster 2.0d & SNT on 4/9/98









                    
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
