
Recipe By     : 
Serving Size  : 4     Preparation Time : 0:00
Categories    : 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
       6                chinese eggplant -- -=or=-
       1         lg  -  italian eggplant
       2      teaspoon  salt
       4    tablespoon  peanut or corn oil
                        =(or more if needed)=-
       1    tablespoon  soy sauce
       1    tablespoon  sugar
     1/4           cup  chicken stock
       2      teaspoon  grated fresh peeled ginger
       1    tablespoon  minced garlic
     1/4      teaspoon  dried red chile flakes
     1/4           cup  chopped water chestnuts
                        (peeled) -- preferably fresh
       3                green onions
                        trimmed and chopped
       1    tablespoon  red wine vinegar
       1    tablespoon  sesame oil
       1    tablespoon  toasted black sesame seeds
                        (for garnish) -

CUT EGGPLANT into 1/2-by-2-inch strips. If using Italian eggplants, peel skin. In a colander, toss eggplant with salt; drain for 30 minutes. Squeeze gently to remove excess water. Pat dry with paper towels. In a small bowl, mix soy sauce, sugar and chicken stock. Preheat wok until hot over high heat. Add 3 tablespoons of the oil, tilt wok to coat sides. When hot, add 1 layer of eggplant, stir-fry until seared and tender (about 3 minutes). Remove to colander. Drain over a bowl to catch juices. Cook remaining eggplant in same manner adding more oil if needed. Reheat wok over medium-high heat. Add remaining 1 tablespoon of the oil, ginger, garlic and chile; cook gently but do not brown. Add water chestnuts and half of the green onions; stir-fry together for 5 seconds. Increase to high heat, add reserved soy sauce mixture and eggplant juices; bring to a boil. Return cooked eggplant; toss quickly over high heat until most of the sauce is reduced and absorbed into eggplant (about 1-to-2 minutes). Fold in vinegar and sesame oil. Remove to serving dish. Top with remaining green onions and sesame seeds. Serve hot or cold. JOYCE JUE - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK








                    
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
