
Recipe By     : 
Serving Size  : 4     Preparation Time : 0:45
Categories    : 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        VINAIGRETTE
       1                scallion
       4     teaspoons  white wine vinegar
     1/4           cup  walnut oil or vegetable oil
                        Salt
                        Fresh ground black pepper
                        SALAD
   1 1/4        ounces  halved walnuts-about 1/3 cup
   1 1/2        pounds  green beans
       2                eggs
   2 1/2        ounces  Feta cheese -- about 1/2 cup
                        crumbled

PREPARATION: For the vinaigrette, mince the scallion. In a small bowl, mix
the vinegar, oil, and scallion. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

Heat oven to 350:F. Put walnuts in a cake pan and toast, stirring once or
twice, until lightly browned, about 7 minutes. Cool and then chop finely.

Cook beans in a large pot of boiling, salted water until crisp-tender,
about 4 minutes. Rinse under cold running water and drain thoroughly.
Gently pat dry.

Put eggs in a saucepan, cover with water, and bring to a simmer. Cover,
remove saucepan from heat, let stand for 20 minutes, drain. Cool eggs,
separate whites from yolks, and chop separately into fine dice. Recipe can
be made to this point several hours ahead.

SERVING: Arrange beans on a round serving platter in a circular fashion
with the ends meeting in the center. Whisk vinaigrette and spoon it evenly
over the beans. Crumble the Feta cheese and sprinkle it in the center of
the plate. Sprinkle chopped walnuts in a circle around the cheese.
Sprinkle chopped egg yolks in a circle around walnuts; then sprinkle
chopped egg whites in a circle around the yolks, covering all but the
outer ends of the beans. Serve at room temperature.



Description:
  "A lively variety of textures and flavors."
Cuisine:
  "French"
Source:
  "Cook's Magazine May 1988"






                    
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
