
Recipe By     : 
Serving Size  : 4     Preparation Time : 0:00
Categories    : Chinese                          Main Course                      
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
                        SAUCE
       2   tablespoons  Oyster sauce
       1      teaspoon  Sugar
       2   tablespoons  Rice wine or sherry
       1    tablespoon  Rice vinegar
       1    tablespoon  Soy sauce, reduced sodium
       1    tablespoon  Ketchup
       1         Clove  garlic -- crushed in a press
                        HAM AND JADE
       4        ounces  Lean ham -- cut into thin strips
       1    tablespoon  Peanut or Canola oil
       1        medium  Onion -- peeled & sliced into
     1/4      teaspoon  Sugar
   1 1/2     teaspoons  Ginger -- minced
       2          cups  Broccoli florets
       1                Carrot -- peel & slice diagona
       2   tablespoons  Walnuts -- coarsely chopped

Sauce: Combine all the ingredients for the sauce in measuring bowl. Stir well to blend set aside.

Ham and Jade: Lightly precook the broccoli by placing the damp florets in a microwave-safe container. Cook on high (100%) power for 3 minutes, stirring after one minute. Remove and allow to cool.

Lightly precook the carrot slices in the microwave for 1 minute on high. Allow to cool. Assemble all ingredients near the wok.

Heat the oil in the wok or large non-stick skillet over high heat. When hot, add the onion slices, Cook, stirring constantly for about 4 minutes, until onions are soft and lightly brown.

Sprinkle with sugar and ginger and cook for 1 minute longer. Add the broccoli, carrots and ham and cook, stirring constantly for 2-3 minutes until broccoli is tender, but still has some crunchiness.

Stir in the sauce and walnuts and bring mixture to a boil. Cook for 1 minute longer, until fragrant. Remove from heat. Serve immediately over Gingered Rice.

S(Internet Address):
  ""



                    
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
