
Recipe By     : 
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time : 0:00
Categories    : 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
     5/8           cup  water -- (for welbilt/dak no
                        water needed)
       1           cup  sourdough starter
       3          cups  bread flour
       1      teaspoon  salt
       1      teaspoon  sugar
       2     teaspoons  red star yeast -- (except for
                        machines -- use 4 ts)
                        cornmeal -- (optional)

Recipe for 1.5 lb loaf.

 For a mild sourdough: Place all ingredients except cornmeal in pan, select Dough setting and press Start.

 For the sourest sourdough: In a medium bowl, combine the water, starter (room temp), and half of the flour. Cover and let stand in a warm place until very sour and bubbly, from 24 to 48 hours. Then combine mixture with the rest of the ingredients except cornmeal in pan. Select Dough setting and press Start. When dough has risen long enough the machine will beep. Turn off bread machine, remove bread pan and turn out dough on floured countertop or cutting board. Shape dough into one 12" oblong loaf or one large round loaf or two 18" thin baguettes or eight french rolls.

 Place loaf (loaves) on a baking sheet that is well greased or sprinkled with cornmeal. With a sharp knife or razor blade, slash the rolls or baguettes straight down the center about 1/2" deep. On the oblong loaf, make 3 diagonal slashes. On the round loaf, slash and X or # on top. Let rise in warm oven 30-45 minutes until doubled. (Hint: to warm oven slightly, turn oven on Warm for 2 minutes, then turn it off, and place covered dough in oven to rise. Remove pan from oven to preheat it)  Preheat oven to 400F. With a plant mister, mist each loaf with water (or brush with water). Bake 25 to 30 minutes until golden brown, misting with water twice more at 5-minute intervals. Remove from oven, cool on wire racks. To preserve crisp crust, do not store in plastic wrap or bags. Bread can be loosely covered or left out for up to 2 days before it dries out completely.

 Bread Machine Magic Rehberg/Conway








                    
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
