
Recipe By     : 
Serving Size  : 1     Preparation Time : 0:00
Categories    : 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
       1           cup  skim or lowfat milk
       3   tablespoons  yogurt -- plain or low-fat

Warm a 1 1/2 quart glass, ceramic, rigid plastic, or stainless steel container by filling it with hot water and letting it stand for several minutes; wipe dry. Heat 1 cup skim or lo-fat milk to 90-100  on a thermometer. Remove from heat and stir in 3 tablespoons plain unflavored, lo-fat yogurt. Pour into warm container, cover tightly, and let stand in a warm place (80 - 100 ). After 18 to 24 hours, starter should be about the consistency of yogurt (a curd forms and mixture does not flow readily when container is slightly tilted). During this time, if some clear liquid rises to top of milk, simply stir it back in. However, if liquid has turned light pink, it indicates that the milk is beginning to break down; discard and try again. After a curd has formed, gradually stir 1 cup all purpose flour into starter until smooth. Cover tightly and let stand in a warm place (80 - 100 ) until mixture is full of bubbles and has a good sour smell; this takes 2 to 5 days. During this time if clear liquid forms, stir it back into starter. /But if liquid turns pink, spoon out and discard all but 1/4 cup starter; thin blend in a mixture of 1 cup each warm milk (90 - 100 ) and flour. Cover tightly and let stand in warm place until bubbly and sour smelling; then it is ready to use. To store, cover and refrigerate. Makes about 1 1/2 cups starter. To maintain an ample supply, replenish your starter every time you use it. Do this by adding a mixture of 1/2 cup each warm milk (90 - 100 ) and flour. Cover and let stand in a warm place for several hours or until next day; mixture should be full of bubbles again. Store covered in refrigerator. For consistent flavor, continue using the same type of milk you originally used. Always let your starter come to room temperature before using it; this takes 4 to 6 hours. If you plan to bake in the morning, leave it out the night before. If you bake regularly- about once a week - the starter should keep lively and active. You can check your starter occasionally to see if its active by spooning out about 1/4 cup of the starter and mixing it with 1/2 cup each warm milk (90  - 100 ) and flour. Cover and let stand in a warm spot. Check often; it should bubble again in 4 to 8 hours. You can combine this mixture with the original starter after the test. If  you don't bake often, its best to discard about half your starter and replenish it with warm milk and flour about every 2 months to keep it active. The feel of dough containing sourdough starter is slightly tacky when lightly touched.




                    
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
