
Recipe By     : 
Serving Size  : 4     Preparation Time : 0:00
Categories    : 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method
--------  ------------  --------------------------------
   1 1/2        pounds  very firm cucumbers
       1      teaspoon  coarse kosher salt
   2 1/2     teaspoons  corn -- or peanut oil
     1/8      teaspoon  dried red chili flakes
       1      teaspoon  fresh garlic -- (opt.)
       1    tablespoon  soy sauce -- thin (regular)
       2   tablespoons  sugar -- or 3

Peel the cucumbers if waxed; otherwise leave the skin on. Trim off the ends. Split the cucumbers lengthwise. If they have seeds; scrape them out with a spoon, as well as any watery pulp. Cut the halves crosswise into 2 1/2" segments, then lengthwise into 1/4" spears. Toss the spears with the salt & let them stand at room temperature 6 hours or overnight in a glass or stainless bowl. Drain, then press the excess water from the cucumbers by squeezing a handful at a time between your palms. Heat a wok or heavy skillet until hot enough to evaporate a drop of water on contact. Add the oil & swirl to coat the pan, then lower the heat to medium low & add a chili flake or two. When the pepper begins to sizzle, add the remaining pepper (and the garlic), and adjust the heat so that it sizzles gently without scorching. If the chili burns, wipe the pan clean and begin anew. When the mixture is aromatic, in 3 - 6 seconds, add the cucumbers & toss briskly to glaze, adjusting the heat to maintain a lively sizzle. When the cukes are evenly glossed, in about 30 seconds, add the soy, sugar & vinegar, then stir until the sugar is dissolved and the liquids are steaming. Taste for desired sweetness and adjust, if necessary. The sauce should sparkle with a zesty hotness, though expect it to grow spicier as it sits. Raise the heat for about 15 seconds to bring the liquids to a boil, then scrape the mixture immediately into a glass or stainless bowl. Press the cucumbers gently under the liquid, then let sit at room  temperature until cool, stirring occasionally. For best flavor, chill several hours or overnight before serving








                    
                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
